i am generally interested in participating in conversations about language, music, gender, sexuality, media i've consumed, food/cooking, and personal news/metasocials/gossip (especially about myself, people i'm close to, and controversial or high status figures in my social groups), and will usually gravitate towards conversations on these topics. i will usually gravitate AWAY from talking about my school/work/projects, as they make me anxious, and theoretical math/programming/engineering talk, as i probably can't follow it. i prefer participating in small group conversations (3-5 people?) over one-on-one conversations or large group conversations. if you act sufficiently enthralled, i may be willing to infodump/monologue at you on some topic, but asking me to carry most of the conversation will generally just make me tire of talking very quickly.
if you want to do something with me, it is important to make very concrete plans. the plans should be at least concrete enough that i can put a time/date and location for the plans into google calendar, so that my phone will tell me when i need to leave to go to the place. having an idea of the sorts of activities we will do is also nice.
i have difficulty with audio processing. if i am in a noisy environment, i will probably not be able to hear you. if there is someone else talking at the same time as you, i will probably not be able to understand you. if you have not secured my attention before you start talking to me, i will take a while to switch over to paying attention to you, and may miss large chunks of what you said. if i am not able to see your face while you are talking, i will have a much harder time understanding you.
in certain situations, i become nonverbal. these are usually when i have a heavy sensory or emotional processing load. if it is important to communicate with me while i am nonverbal, i am almost always capable of responding to yes or no questions by nodding or shaking my head, although sometimes i will be stumped on how to respond when the answer is highly ambiguous. i can fingerspell slowly and sign a little, and sometimes that is easier than making words with my mouth. typing is nearly always easier than making words with my mouth. if i seem distressed but cannot verbalize it, asking concrete yes or no questions can help, talking to me about something unrelated can help, getting me food or water can help, and taking me for a walk or otherwise switching context will almost certainly help.
i sometimes find myself in a mood where being aware that other people are modeling me is mentally paralyzing. asking me how i am, what's going on, or making any visible-to-me attempt to understand how i am feeling WILL MAKE IT WORSE. when i am in this state, i find it deeply distressing that, given i exist, it is literally impossible for me to avoid conveying information to others. i think it happens when something about my people-modeling module goes haywire. if it gets bad enough, i find myself deeply wishing i did not and never had existed. i do not become suicidal - killing myself would be informative. rather, i will typically withdraw from social contact and attempt to be as epiphenomenal as possible until it goes away. if you wish to help it go away faster, it is best to treat me as though everything is normal, i am not behaving oddly, and you are not concerned. distractions and context switches tend to help.
i have a weirdly overactive startle response, and my startle response is to freeze. sudden loud noises in my vicinity will make me freeze and maybe also yelp. i do not find being startled enjoyable. i am phobic of sunfish. do not make me be near sunfish. do not make me /look at/ sunfish. if there is one that is about to happen and it is unavoidable, warning me will help me mentally prepare. i am also phobic of guns. do not make me touch a gun, even a disassembled gun. i can look at them okay but please keep them covered and away from me such that i do not risk touching one. i am trypophobic such that looking at irregularly clustered holes in things will make me feel deeply uncomfortable and somewhat disgusted. i am interested in working on my phobias but it needs to be entirely on my terms.
i generally take the she/her/hers pronoun paradigm, but i am fairly ambivalent about it. i will be perfectly happy with they/them/theirs. i will be confused about others but not upset. i would prefer my gender be unspecified when people write about me, especially when not all people who might read the text are previously aware of my gender.
i am very add. i am inattentive rather than hyperactive. i do not learn well from punishment. i am very flaky and will frequently show up to things late and/or underprepared. i have difficulty prioritizing my attentions and tend to under- or over-focus on things. task initiation is very difficult for me, so i prefer to do things in one sitting if possible, even if that means the sitting ends up being many hours long. having specific contexts tied to specific actions helps me get in and stay in the right mode to perform those actions.
i get a weird ache in my legs, especially my shins, when i am sleep deprived. it can get painful to the point that it keeps me awake. i prefer to avoid that point. i have a hard time sleeping while touching someone else, or while in a bed that transfers movement easily with someone else in it. i prefer sleeping in a cool room because i sleep best when i have MANY THICK blankets on top of me. my weighted blanket is a Good. i can sleep okay with rhythmic noise (like a dishwasher) but aperiodic noise will distract me (breathing and heartbeats are usually not sufficiently regular to be undistracting). i am a stomach sleeper and like to have at least one thinnish, firmish pillow. i tend to feel best when i sleep between the hours of midnight and 8am. if i miss midnight, i am at risk of staying up until dawn. i need at least a little sunlight each day to not slide into a generally shitty mood. sleepy me has *very* different priorities from awake me, and is generally much bitchier. attempting to get wake me up by making continued sleep difficult/unpleasant will result in me sleeping HARDER out of SPITE and is not recommended.
i am chronically dehydrated. i do not have an innate sense of thirst, and have instead learned signs to help me determine whether i need water. i will usually appreciate being offered water or reminded to hydrate.
when i am hungry, my already-poor executive function plummets. food plans are best made before i am actively hungry. i am usually very capable of determining what i want to eat. i will sometimes fixate on very specific foods.
beverage preferences: i don't like iced beverages, because my teeth are fairly sensitive to cold. a straw helps. i don't like fizzy beverages (some things which are "sparkling" are okay, but often they are too fizzy). i like nearly all tea that i've tried. puerh, earl grey creme, masala chai, and matcha are particularly good. coffee (even decaf) is usually too caffienated for me. i enjoy drinking it but it usually makes me feel awful. many sodas, lemonades, etc have some sort of sweetener that coats my teeth and makes them feel sticky, which is unpleasant. artificial sweeteners often have a chemical/bitter component that i dislike. juices are good. i prefer whole milk to skim. i enjoy alcoholic beverages. i prefer cocktails to beer or wine. among beers, i prefer unhopped (hops makes things taste like a dirty kitchen sponge). stouts, lambics, and scotch ales are all usually fine. among wine, i prefer sweet over dry and white over red. moscato, reisling, and chardonnay are all ok. i am a big fan of port. i like most ciders and meads, especially those that are sweet or tart rather than dry. spiced drinks, cordials, and infusions are good. i am a sucker for pretty much any drink with ginger in it. i like scotch, whisky, rum, gin, and vodka, but hate tequila (mezcal is okay because the smoke usually covers up the cactus).
food preferences: i am fairly adventurous with food and enjoy trying new things. i love mushrooms. i am mildly allergic to capsicum peppers. i hate olives, rye, bean sprouts, and cilantro (it tastes of soap). i prefer fruit that are still fairly firm/crisp/unripe and generally will not eat them if they are remotely mushy.
i have an autoimmune skin condition which causes my skin to react disproportionately to irritants. i cannot use most detergents, soaps, shampoos, etc without risking hives and dyshidrosis. i suspect my allergy to peppers is actually this. if you scratch my skin, you can draw on me!
i hate spoilers, and try to remain unspoiled for any media i expect to consume. please tell me as little information as is needed for me to decide whether i want to consume a given piece. i tend to like stories with strong worldbuilding (especially linguistic and magic systems), complex character relationships, well-designed character suffering, allegories/extended metaphor, wordplay/poetry, and a "puzzle" (details that provoke theorizing about the outcome of the story, or about how the outcome will come about, or about why things are as they are, etc).
i really enjoy singing. i'm an alto, with a range from about B2-B5 (stronger on the lower end than the upper). i have a pretty good repertoire of folk music (for an incomplete catalog, see http://ashborne.github.io/). i can pick up songs by ear pretty quickly, but have only limited sight-reading ability. singing is particularly effective at distracting me from anxiety, discomfort, and pain. i enjoy harmonizing, and am trying to learn how to improvise harmonies. i have a weak sense of rhythm.
i enjoy social dance as a follow. my favorite dance is cross-step waltz. i can follow decently well at polka, rotary waltz, and swing. i like contra dancing but usually feel unaccountably awkward when i try it.
i like roleplaying games, especially social-oriented LARPs. i enjoy tabletop games. i am interested in text-based roleplay, but need handholding and scheduling in order to not flake out.
if you offer me something (money, gifts, favors, etc) i will usually take the offer at face value and accept if it is something i want. if your offer is conditional, please make that clear. if your offer comes with some other expectations attached, please make them clear. if you do not actually want to give me the thing you are offering, do not offer.
i like affectionate touch, but will nearly never think to initiate. please ask me before touching me in a new way, or in a new social environment. if i have previously consented to a certain type of touch in a certain type of social environment, i am sufficiently likely to consent to that type of touch in that context in the future that you may do it again without asking. i generally enjoy having my hair petted, my limbs/back stroked, and my neck/shoulders rubbed. hugs are nice. i do not like small, sudden touches. i am ticklish. kissing is strongly romance-coded for me and i probably will not want to do it with you unless i am romantically involved with you.
i am bisexual. i am attracted to people of all genders, but the sort of things that i find attractive and the way i feel that attraction vary by gender.
features i'm attracted to, regardless of gender:
expressive eyes/eyebrows/mouth
round, squeezable butt
long hair
wavy, curly, or thick hair
strong nose
good singing voice
poise/posture
height differential (either taller or shoerter than me)
domliness
atypical gender expression
cock
in people i read as male, i am attracted to:
strong/angular jawline
widow's peak/hair that sweeps away from the temples
shoulders, especially with freckles
facial/chest/leg/butt hair
deep voice
in people i read as female, i am attracted to:
boobs
heart shaped face
low waist-hip ratio
subliness
gymnast/dancer body type
i have yet to encounter enough people i read as nonbinary to know what is distinctively attractive about them (this is not to say that i don't find any NBs hot - i have had intense attraction to people i've read NB. i just don't know of anything that is especially hot on NBs as opposed to other genders, yet.)
i find relational anxiety extremely unpleasant. i strongly prefer to minimize ambiguity about the goals of a social interaction, how someone feels about me, how i feel about someone, the nature of our relationship, etc. please tell me as bluntly as you are comfortable with if you are interested in friendship/sex/romance/etc. i will typically respond with similar bluntness. i am fine with guess-culturing my way through social interactions and relationships, but be warned that if we are playing that game and i begin to suspect you of interest i do not reciprocate, i will find interacting with you very stressful and will probably avoid you. if you give me the impression that you will not feel pressured to change your behavior as a result of me expressing interest, then i will be more likely to feel comfortable expressing interest to you. if i do not have that impression of you, and i have an interest that i don't know is reciprocated, i will find interacting with you very stressful and will probably avoid you.
i have taken a hard-line policy that people who cannot believe i care about them get to be correct in their beliefs. if there is evidence i could present you that would convince you that i care about you, then you are safe for me to care about. if no amount of effort or evidence i am capable of putting forward will convince you, then i will instead put that effort into ceasing to care about you. (there may be a loophole here if you don't have particularly strong need/expectation for me to care about you, but it's iffy)
i feel a strong pressure to behave in line with peoples' expectations of me. surprising people is distressing. people expecting things of me that are not in line with my abilities and preferences is very distressing. there is a particular trap that people can fall into, where they are overconfident in their beliefs about me, and i then try very hard not to give evidence that would violate those beliefs. this is especially bad when their beliefs include things like "elena is comfortable with this", "elena is enjoying this", "elena wants this", etc, and can lead to frog-boiling situations where i find myself doing things i actively do not want to do, because someone who i did not model as being open to the possibility of rejection kept escalating their bids. i am sick of having my frog boiled, am trying to actively-thermoregulate my frog, and if i notice you boiling my frog you are banned (and i will probably not inform you of your ban). the best way to avoid boiling my frog is to give me the impression that you would accept rejection with equanimity. please do your best to sincerely be open to rejection or negotiation, or at least to give me the impression that you are. if i feel like being open with you will be taken poorly, i will become extremely avoidant. i prefer to be treated like i am a nice bonus - something you are happy to have but do not need. if you treat me like i am scarce, i will make myself scarce.
if you notice me avoiding you, and would prefer i didn't, you can ask me about it and if i answer, i will answer honestly. i will not be that likely to respond, because i am avoiding you. if you want to increase the likelihood that i'll respond, make it clear to me that you are really truly actually okay with any possible outcome and will not be upset with me about it, and work with me to set a time in which i compose my answer (even if i want to answer you, i will likely continually put it off unless i have strong pressure to make time for it.
