template attributes:
no gender restrictions. no cis/trans restrictions. likely some degree of gender dysphoria, regardless.
does not come in monosexual
very likely to have poor executive function, ADD-suite symptoms
overwhelmingly likely to come in Sub, but Switch or Dom is not entirely unthinkable. the more executive dysfunction, the more likely to be sub.
propensity for introspection. starts journaling because of drive for self-documentation. discovers that non-private journaling is more effective and shares with appropriate audiences.
high openness to new experience, low disgust, low shame. high guilt while young; will learn to cope and manage expectations with time.
sexually precocious with a naturally high sex drive. has a sexuality and sex drive even during early childhood. will *act on it* in whatever ways seem relatively unlikely to have lasting Terrible Consequences. likely has special interest in sex/sexuality
will have a strong sense of self-determination and that what is best for them might differ from what society thinks. a tendency to 
poor relationship object-permanence. propensity for people/things to become "shiny" ie highly attention capturing. shininess is a prerequisite for crush formation.
tends to have a favorite person - generally a function of shininess and life-fixtureness/attachment/histroy - who is their default/go-to for most social interaction, social-emotional processing, etc. usually only one at a time, but two is not too unllikely. will probably not have more than three people at this level of closeness/intimacy.
starts out VERY poly, with poor understanding of whatever the standard dilineations between friendship, romance, and sexual relationships are. falls in love with crushes very quickly upon sufficient positive interaction with crush. with work and time, can learn how to recognize and operate within societal norms for friendship/romance/sex to a degree.
limited capacity for monogamy; will still fall in love with outside people frequently, will find this extremely distressing if partner is not comfortable with it. with strong enough pressure to do monogamy, will self-modify to not initiate intimate/affectionate touch outside of explicitly romantic/sexual relationships, and to be able to turn off crushes with some force of will. will feel resentful/regretful about having such mods. with sufficient influence from those who undermine their belief in their ability to really/truly/correctly/properly love, will become a romance-averse aromantic with no sex drive. will never stop shipping their crushes with people.
by default, will feel guilty about not living up to peoples hopes/desires/expectations of them, and will go to lengths to contort themselves into something which will not be disappointing. degree of this increases with increased executive dysfunction. can channel this into positive, servicey, being-of-use to people. can develop into neuroses about people needing/relying on them.
in relationships where they don't feel accepted/understood/able to express themselves without upsetting their partner, will over time feel increasingly trapped and claustrophobic, and *eventually* leave if possible, but will tend to stay longer than is healthy.
extremely likely special interest in language, communication, intention-regocnition, cooperation/coordination, and generally how people model other people and use those models to inform their behavior. likely interest in poetry, especially as a means of converying mental/emotional states, as well as playing with linguistic constraints.
moderate possibility of special interests in anatomy, physiology, botany, herbology, mycology, mineralogy, cooking, glassworking, jewelrymaking, calligraphy, embroidery/fiber arts, math/logic/set theory, music, webcomics, storytelling, etc
tendency for self-harm, until sufficient self-insight and alternate coping mechanisms are in place. however, unlikely to attempt self-harm that leaves marks or injuries unless someone else gives them the idea. very high chance of masochism. will find certain types of pain intrinsically fun/rewarding and can learn to extend this to others.
good chance of musical affinity. if musical, will be attracted to lyrically based/poetic music.
by default, poor sense of rhythm and body-kinesthetics, but can be trained with sufficient encouragement/dedication, and will find this rewarding and enjoyable.
without access to outside materials to stave off boredom, will stim by singing and drawing, or other aesthetic/creative culturally-accepted practice (incl math).
will have sensory sensitivities and strong opinions about them, especially while young. will learn to tolerate most of them over time, especially under social pressure.
strong themes of light and trees. moderate themes of stars.

familial/circumstantial attractors:
nontraditional family, especially wrt number of parent-figures
	a) at least one parent-figure who is Charismatic and Inspiring in the Milesean "lead and inspire others to become their best selves" sort of way
	b) at least one parent-figure who is rigid, idealistic, and emotionally distant/weakly-attached. probably the same one as a).
	c) at least one parent-figure who is extremely intuitively-empathetic, sensitive, and alert to the needs and comfort of others. probably *not* the same one as a).
	d) at least one parent-figure who is socially isolated and prone to depression. probably the same one as c).
	e) at least one parent-figure who dies suddenly and traumatically just as [alt] reaches adulthood. most likely but not necessarily the same one as a).
	f) chance of one parent-figure who is completely abesent until [alt] reaches adolescence at the earliest.
	g) chance of one parent-figure who is in a fringe religion, or cult, or other time-consuming, ideology-based alignment, and does not leave until [alt] is solidly an adult. probably the same as f.
	h) chance of at least one sexuality/gender-atypical parent-figure.
	i) at least one parent-figure who is a first-generation immigrant, with decent chance of such parent(s) also being the child of first-generation immigrants to the country they emigrated from
at least one parent, and likely more than one, who is fluent in multiple languages.
one set of grandparents who is moderately conservative while being warm, open, and accepting; one set of grandparents who are demanding and controlling
most likely has siblings, but likely half-siblings, and likely with a ~10+yr age gaps in either direction
good chance to grow up relatively poor, but with a high chance of upwardly-mobile immediate family, especially in adolescence
if it is financially feasible, parents will provide homeschooling, private schooling, tutors, or similar alternative to standard public education
good chance of moving around alot during childhood
good chance of meeting lifelong friends at a relatively young age. poor chances of meeting good friends during early adolescence. next good chance not until late adolescence/early adulthood.
likely career options: 
	sex industry: courtesan, porn star, sex educator, sexologist
	mental health: therapist, psychologist, priestess
	language: editor, linguist, language researcher, language teacher
	hospitality: innkeeper, bed and breakfast owner, restauranteur, cook, baker, brewer
if there is magic:
	affinity for support-role enabling powers
	affinity for powers that enable clear, effectice communication
	affinity for light and trees
	affinity for music and language-based magic